---
title: bls12_381
date: 2023-12-01 19:09:11
tags: [cryptography, ec]
---

## introduction
BLS12-381 is a pairing-friendly elliptic curve. Curve BLS12-381 was designed by [Sean Bowe](https://twitter.com/ebfull) in early 2017 as the foundation for an upgrade to the Zcash protocol. It is both pairing-friendly (making it efficient for digital signatures) and effective for constructing zkSnarks. BLS12-381 is part of a family of curves described by Barreto, Lynn, and Scott (BLS). The 12 is the embedding degree of the curve: neither too low, nor too high. The 381 is the number of bits needed to represent coordinates on the curve: the field modulus, \\(q\\). 381 is a fairly handy number as we can use 48 bytes per field element, with 3 bits left over for useful flags or arithmetic optimisations. This size of this number is guided both by security requirements and implementation efficiency.

## curve equation and parameters
The basic equation of the BLS12-381 curve is \\( y^2 = x^3 + 4\\)
The key parameters for a BLS curve are set using a single parameter \\(\mathbf{x}\\) (different from the in the curve equation!). BLS12-381 is derived from the \\( k \equiv 0 \mod 6\\) case of Construction 6.6 in the [taxonomy](https://eprint.iacr.org/2006/372.pdf).

Specific design goals for BLS12-381 are:
- \\(\mathbf{x}\\) has “low hamming weight”, meaning that it has very few bits set to 1. This is particularly important for the efficiency of the algorithm that calculates pairings (the Miller loop).
- The field modulus \\(q\\) mentioned above is prime and has 383 bits or fewer, which makes 64-bit or 32-bit arithmetic on it more efficient.
- The order \\(r\\) of the subgroups we use is prime and has 255 bits or fewer, which is good for the same reason as above.
- To support zkSnark schemes, we want to have a large power of two root of unity in the field. This means we want **\\(2^n\\) to be a factor of \\(r-1\\)**, for some biggish \\(n\\). (Making \\(\mathbf{x}\\) a multiple of \\(2^{n/2}\\) will achieve this.) This property is key to being able to use fast Fourier transforms for interesting things like polynomial multiplication.

The value \\(\mathbf{x}\\) = -0xd201000000010000 (hexadecimal, note that it is negative) gives the largest and the lowest Hamming weight meeting these criteria. With this value we have,
| parameters |equation|value(hex)|comments|
|---|:---:|:---:|---:|
|Field modulus \\(q\\)|\\(\frac{1}{3}(\mathbf{x}-1)^2(\mathbf{x}^4-\mathbf{x}^2+1) + \mathbf{x}\\)|0x1a0111ea397fe69a4b1ba7b6434bacd764774b84f3<br>8512bf6730d2a0f6b0f6241eabfffeb153ffffb9feffffffffaaab|381 bits, prime|
|Subgroup size \\(r\\)|\\((\mathbf{x}^4-\mathbf{x}^2+1)\\)|0x73eda753299d7d483339d80809a1d80553<br>bda402fffe5bfeffffffff00000001|255 bits, prime|

## Field extensions
Field extensions are fundamental to elliptic curve pairings. The “12” is BLS12-381 is not only the embedding degree, it is also (relatedly) the degree of field extension that we will need to use.
For example, The complex numbers are a quadratic extension of the real numbers (\\(x^2 = 1\\)). Complex numbers can’t be extended any further because there are [no irreducible polynomials over the complex numbers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fundamental_theorem_of_algebra). But for finite fields, if we can find an irreducible \\(k\\)-degree polynomial in our field \\(F_q\\), and we often can, then we are able to extend the field to \\(F_{q^k}\\), , and represent the elements of the extended field as degree \\(k-1\\) polynomials, \\(a_0 + a_1 x + ... + a_{k-1}x^{k-1}\\). we can represent this compactly as (\\(a_0, a_1, ..., a_{k-1}\\))
In practice, large extension fields like \\(F_{q^{12}}\\)are implemented as towers of smaller extensions.

## the curves
BLS12-381 is really dealing with two curves. Both curves share more-or-less the same curve equation, but are defined over different fields.
The simpler one is over the finite field \\(F_q\\), which is just the integers mod \\(q\\). So the curve has points only where the equation \\(y^2 = x^3 +4\\) has solutions with \\(x\\) and \\(y\\) both integers less than \\(q\\). We shall call this curve \\(E(F_q)\\).
The other curve is defined over an extension of \\(F_q\\)to \\(F_{q^2}\\) (think complex numbers). In this case, the curve equation is slightly modified to be \\(y^2 = x^3+4(1+i)\\), and we call the curve \\(E'(F_{q^2})\\)

## the subgroups
A pairing is a bilinear map. This means that it takes as input two points, each from a group of the same order, \\(r\\). for rather technical reasons, these two groups need to be distinct. Let’s call them 
\\(G_1\\) and \\(G_2\\).
Unfortunately, our simple curve \\(E(F_q)\\) **has only a single large subgroup of order \\(r\\)**, so we can’t define a pairing based solely on \\(E(F_q)\\). However, if we keep extending the field over which 
\\(E\\) is defined, it can be proved that we eventually find a curve that has more than one subgroup of order \\(r\\). that is, for some \\(k\\), **\\(E(F_{q^k})\\) contains other subgroups of order \\(r\\) that we can use**. One of these subgroups contains only points having a **trace of zero**[1], and we choose that subgroup to be \\(G_2\\)


This number \\(k\\), the amount that we need to extend the base field by to find the new group, is called the embedding degree of the curve, which in our case is the “12” in BLS12-381. For completeness, note that each of \\(G_1\\) and \\(G_2\\) shares with its containing curve the “point at infinity”. This is the identity element of the elliptic curve arithmetic group, often denoted \\(\mathcal O\\)
. For any point \\(P\\), \\( P + \mathcal O = \mathcal O + P = P\\). 

## Twists
But there’s another challenge. As discussed earlier, doing arithmetic in \\(F_{q^{12}}\\) is horribly complicated and inefficient. And curve operations need a lot of arithmetic. A [twist](http://indigo.ie/~mscott/twists.pdf) is something like a coordinate transformation. Rather wonderfully, this can be used to transform our \\(E(F_{q^{12}})\\) curve into a curve defined over a lower degree field that still has an order \\(r\\) subgroup.  Moreover, this subgroup has a simple mapping to and from our \\(G_2\\) group

BLS12-381 uses a “sextic twist”. This means that it reduces the degree of the extension field by a factor of six. So \\(G_2\\) on the twisted curve can be defined over \\(F_{q^2}\\) instead of \\(F_{q^{12}}\\)
I haven’t seen this written down anywhere—but attempting to decode section 3 of [this](https://eprint.iacr.org/2005/133.pdf)—if we find a \\(u\\) such that \\(u^6 = (1+i)^{-1}\\), then we can define our twisting transformation as \\( (x,y) -> (x/u^2, y/u^3)\\). This transforms our original curve \\(E: y^2 = x^3 + 4\\) into the curve \\(E': y^2 + 4/u^6 = x^3 + 4(1+i)\\). **\\(E\\) and \\(E'\\) look different, but are actually the same object presented with respect to coefficinets in different base fields**.

So these are the two groups we will be using:
- \\(G_1 \subset E(F_q)\\), where \\(E: y^2 = x^3 + 4\\)
- \\(G_2 \subset E(F_{q^2})\\), where \\(E: y^2 = x^3 + 4(1+i)\\)
Note that coordinates of points in the \\(G_1\\) group are pairs of integers, and coordinates of points in the \\(G_2\\) group are pairs of complex integers.

## Parings
s far as BLS12-381 is concerned, a pairing simply takes a point \\(P \in G_1 \subset E(F_q)\\), and a point \\(Q \in G_2 \subset E'(F_{q^2})\\) and outputs a point from a group \\(G_T \subset F_{q^{12}}\\). That is, for a paring \\(e\\), \\(e: G_1 \times G_2 \rightarrow G_T\\)

properties of pairing
\\( e(P, Q+R) = e(P,Q) \cdot e(P,R) \\), 
**note** as a way of memory, can think it as \\(P^{Q+R} = P^Q \cdot P^R\\)
\\( e(P+S, R) = e(P,R) \cdot e(S,R)\\)
From this, we can deduce that all of the following identities hold:
\\(e([a]P, [b]Q) = e(P, [b]Q)^a = e(P,Q)^{ab} = e(P, [a]Q)^b = e([b]P, [a]Q)\\)


## Embedding degree
The embedding degree, \\(k\\), is calculated as the smallest positive integer such that \\(r\\) divides \\(q^k -1\\). So, in the case of BLS12-381, \\(r\\) is a factor of \\(q^{12} -1\\), but not of any lower power.
The choice of an embedding degree is a balance between security and efficiency (as ever). On the security front, the embedding degree is also known as the security multiplier: a higher embedding degree makes the discrete logarithm problem harder to solve in 
. However, a high embedding degree means we have to do field operations in high-degree extensions, which is clunky and inefficient. 


## cofactor
A subgroup’s cofactor is the ratio of the size of the whole group to the size of the subgroup. 
| Group |Cofactor|Equation|value(hex)|
|---|:---:|:---:|---:|
|\\(G_1\\)|\\(h_1\\)|\\(\frac{\mathbf{x-1}^2}{3}\\)|0x396c8c005555e<br>1568c00aaab0000aaab|
|\\(G_2\\)|\\(h_2\\)|\\(\frac{\mathbf{x}^8 -4\mathbf{x}^7+5\mathbf{x}^6-4\mathbf{x}^4+6\mathbf{x}^3-4\mathbf{x}^2-4\mathbf{x}+13}{9}\\)|0x5d543a95414e7f1091d50792876a202cd91de<br>4547085abaa68a205b2e5a7ddfa628f1cb4d9e82ef2<br>1537e293a6691ae1616ec6e786f0c70cf1c38e31c7238e5|

**note** multiplying by the cofactor turns out to be a straightforward way to map any arbitrary point on the elliptic curve into the respective subgroup \\(G_1\\) or \\(G_2\\)

## Generators
\\(G_1\\) and \\(G_2\\) are cyclic groups of prime order, so any point (except the identity/point at infinity) is a generator. Thus, picking generators is just a matter of convention.
Generator points \\(G_1\\) and \\(G_2\\) are specified in decimal [here](https://github.com/zcash/librustzcash/blob/6e0364cd42a2b3d2b958a54771ef51a8db79dd29/pairing/src/bls12_381/README.md#generators)

These were chosen as follows:

> The generators of \\(G_1\\) and \\(G_2\\)  are computed by finding the lexicographically smallest valid x-coordinate, and its lexicographically smallest > y-coordinate and scaling it by the cofactor such that the result is not the point at infinity.


## Foot notes
[1] The “trace zero subgroup” qualifies as an obscure incantation. Basically, the trace of a point is \\(\sum_{i=0}^{k-1}(x^{q^i}, y^{q^i})\\), where \\(k=12\\) in our case. Understanding this involves stuff like the Frobenius endomorphism.


## references
- https://hackmd.io/@benjaminion/bls12-381
- [initial post of bls12-381](https://electriccoin.co/blog/new-snark-curve/)
- [implementation: blst](https://github.com/supranational/blst)